Hello and welcome back.
Last time is a great and quite long tutorial on the chi squared test.
This time will make it short and sweet.
We only have a few things left to color off and I'll just start off where we finished last time.
So here we had the template that we created or basically the Excel spreadsheet where we ran our chi
squared tests.
By the way you can get the template has promised.
It's in the course materials just like you would download a daughter said you can go and download the
same way you can download this template and use it in case you need it to.
You need to check some things or run a chi square test in the future.
And here we also ran the chi squared test on this Web site.
Over here you can see the link and we were able to confirm that our results are valid so this is just
a quick way of running a square test before having to create everything in Excel.
And what are we going to do now is we going to finish off with the rules of a chi square test.
Let me just find them.
I will bring them up just now.
And there they are.
So the rules of a chi squared test.
These are important things that you need to abide by to make sure your post tests are running correctly
and the results that they're giving you can actually talk about them and use them to back your analysis
.
So using the cast to back reducing and tabbouleh but you need the rules to make sure the consequent
test is working properly.
Number one the probability of independence.
This is what the Cassowary test is about.
This is the essence the quintessence of the squared test.
It basically tells you or helps you understand whether there is some sort of correlation between your
outcome and a certain category or certain variable.
So whether it's gender or it's age whether it's whatever other variable chi squared will by default
assume that there is no relation so the outcome is independent of that variable and then running a squared
test will tell you so if the value is less than 0.05 that means that that's is a incorrect assumption
and that there is actually some sort of correlation.
Number two chi squared test is does not test for the actual relationship between variables it can tell
you if it exists or not but it can tell you what the relationship is so you cannot use the square test
to say that gender has a more significant impact on your outcome than for example in age or for example
the balance on their account or some other animals you can't compare and contrast or compare.
You can only say yes or no that's all that is grotesque and do.
So just make sure that you using the chi square test for the correct purpose.
You cannot use percentages you need absolute values as we discussed.
You have to convert your table into the absolute values.
Make sure you don't put percentages in.
That's a common mistake people make they put in percentages and then they're on the square test.
It'll give you a wrong result.
Categories must be mutually exclusive so you cannot have a category where you can be in one category
and then you can also be maybe in the other category.
They have to be separate like in our example a person either exited or not.
You cannot do both.
So that's a very important assumption of the chi-squared test.
Number five never exclude one of the outcomes doesn't really apply in our case.
But it's good to know about.
Sometimes your data might have several outcomes like we have only two yes or no.
Did the person exit or did the person stay.
But maybe you might have a different data set that might have three or more outcomes.
I'll give you an example let's say you're looking at political preferences of people.
And so your independent also your variables that you're lets you know about the sample are of like gender
age affluence.
How much money they have what car they drive things like that.
And then your outcomes can be Democrats can be Republicans and can also be Greenpeace.
So three different political preferences right.
And even you can be two of them at the same time they're mutually exclusive because you can only vote
for one.
And at the same time there's three of them.
So what this rule is saying is that you cannot if you have three outcomes you should never exclude three
or more outcomes you know exclude one of them so you can just test.
You can't just throw on the chi squared test for Democrat and Republicans.
If the way your sample is constructed that you had all three in there because excluding one of the outcomes
can affect the results of the casket.
Having said that bear in mind that you can exclude categories of one variable like in our example we
had three countries right we had France and Germany and Spain.
And what that means is that we can test the code.
We can run the chi squared test with all three countries and just decide whether a country as a variable
impacts the life whether or not a person leaves.
But what else you can do is you can completely forget about people who are from Germany.
Right.
And you can just say just take them out for a minute from your analysis and just think about people
who are from France and from Spain and you can compare those two against each other so you can run a
quite as just for the two of those countries.
You just gotta understand what the outcome will be.
And in that case the outcome will be whether or not there'll be a significant difference for exiting
the bank depending on whether you're from France or from Spain.
So just those two countries so you can do that you can exclude different categories of a one single
variable and finally rule of six a minimum of five observations in each cell.
So that's an important rule of squared test if you have less than five observations in a cell.
You can't run the test.
You have to look for other tests that might be suitable to your situation.
So we're done with the rules and I'm going to give you a challenge take away that you can work on in
terms of running a chi squared test.
So here is our geography.
Right.
So this is what we just talked about.
It's in percentages so it's converted into absolute values.
There's no geography in absolute values.
And now let's create the observed table.
That's the observed table as you can see now there's three categories on the in in rows.
France Germany and Spain.
And there's still two columns stayed and exited.
And here's our expected table.
Similar right.
So when you're going to be doing this of course you have to calculate the exited properly in this case
.
I use 20 percent but in reality it's a bit different to 20 percent so just use the same approach that
we used previously and that's it.
So all you have to do is run a chi squared test.
I'll give you a few hints here.
First of all if you look back here you kind of see right away that probably it looks like there might
be some sort of correlation.
When you run it for all three jugglery.
So what that Kashgar test will tell is that there probably won't.
It'll probably tell you that there is a dependency between the people exiting and which country they're
from.
And so that's number one.
So you're kind of where you know what the outcome should be.
Hint number two is when you're creating your table you just have to add another row here and just make
sure that your calculations are correct when you're forming your expected table.
Just make them similar to what you see here.
It should be pretty straightforward.
And that way you'll be able to practice creating a cascade test table and then just run the same thing
here.
So for the P-value you have the actuals and your expected table.
And finally here's another hint.
In case you get stuck go to this Web site.
DA s s a r stats dot net slash new h dot HMO.
So what this Web site can do for you is it will allow you to run the cast great test right here so you
just enter the data here and you don't even have to enter the totals so you just take the data as is
.
You just have to take these call in these cells or the cells that we looked at in PowerPoint and you
just put them in here you calculate and I'll give you the p value right away actually give you a lot
more information which you can explore but it will give you the P-value so he can check that P-value
against the one that you created in your Excel template.
And so that sums it up for us for today.
I hope these two tutorials were very insightful into chi squared and that now you're going to be very
confident that what you're doing and Tablo those tests those in very intuitive tests that they are actually
backed by hard statistics and that you will always be able to stand your ground when you're talking
to your manager or chief executive or presenting to an audience.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next tutorial.
Until then happy analyzing